---
title: "BubbleTCAM: Bubble Reservation in SDN Switches for Fast TCAM Update"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/BubbleTCAM
excerpt: ' Cong Luo, Chuhao Chen, Hao Mei, **Ruyi Yao**, Ying Wan, Wenjun Li, Sen Liu, Bin Liu, Yang Xu'
date: 2022-11-03
venue: 'IWQoS'
---
The unique hardware structure of Ternary Content-Addressable Memory (TCAM) enables its unparalleled lookup throughput but also causes slow update due to the Priority Order Constraint (POC). With the increase of application demands, TCAM update has become a bottleneck in the network. This paper proposes a new TCAM management mechanism named BubbleTCAM to enable fast TCAM update, in which available empty entries are defined as bubbles. The core idea of BubbleTCAM is to uniformly distribute bubbles and dependency chains in TCAM, which is beneficial to updates. BubbleTCAM consists of two components: \textit{bubble management} and \textit{rule insertion}. Bubble management enables TCAM to have uniformly distributed bubbles at all times through three key procedures: \textit{bubble lock reservation}, \textit{bubble lock release} and \textit{bubble generation}. Rule insertion ensures that dependency chains of rules are uniformly stretched and distributed in TCAM. In addition, BubbleTCAM avoids the reorder problem by pre-sorting. Our evaluation based on the rulesets generated by ClassBench shows that BubbleTCAM effectively reduces the average cost and worst cost (in units of rule movements) during rule updates by at least 48\% and 50\%, respectively. Especially for the worst cost, the performance can be improved by up to 196x.
